             # Topolgy:
  Layout of how a network communicates with devices
Types:
1.  Star Topology -most common. One central point connecting to all devices..like a hub or a switch
Data passes to the central point before passing to all devices
if one computer fails ,others are not affected
Single point of failure(major disadvantage).
2.  Bus Topology- network devices are connected to  a backbone cable(coaxial cable),BNC connectors /T connectors
- Cheap and Easy to implemented
disav: the ends must be terminated by terminators.
  Data flows once at a time ,if more is added it fails,also, if terrminators are lose or missing and or a computer removed or added ..the  cable would be open and dtata would bounce back.. This is a SIGNAL REFLECTION leads to disruption of data flow.
3.  Ring Topology
Each computer is connected to each other like a ring or circular. Easy to uninstall and troubleshoot.Disadv, If one computer/device fails others are affected.
Rarely used today.
4.  Mesh Topology
-Each computer is connected to all other computers and this handles failure very well.
Too much cabling hence expensive
Internet is a Mesh topolgy ,creates high redundancy.
5.   Hybrid Topology
eg star ring
star bus
5.   Point to point Topolgy
Simplest form cause its just two hosts connected to each other with one cable.
6. Client Server Topology
clients connects directly to a central server
Most common, cause its cheaper..Admin puts resources on one machine then the rest can get information from it.
7.  Point to Multipoint Topology 
One server to several clients, the server is called the base station/accesspoint
All clients are not connected
8.  Peer to Peer topology
All clients talk with other clients communicate to share resources ,no central servers
simple to set up..in homes and small offices

               ##CONNECTORS
 ~RJ-11 CONNECTOR -usually a telephone jack.
  Registered jack- Used to connect computers to local networks through modems
  Has a high hinged locking tab that locks itself in place.
  Smaller than rj- 45.
  
~RJ-45 CONNECTOR
Commonest network connector to connect computers to local area networks.It looks like rj-11 but larger.Locks. by hinged locking tabs

~RJ-48c CONNECTOR
Similar to RJ-45 only that its used with a shielded twisted pair.Wired differently
Hinged locking tab 
Used with  t1 lines and wired diferently.

~ UTP coupler
Used to connect UTP cables with RJ-45 cables with each other.Extending UTP cable.

~BNC CONNECTOR(Bayonet Neil-Concelman).
ype of RF connector
Used for both analog and digital videos and audio transmissiom

~ Fiber Couplers
Join 2 of the same fiber optic connectors.
Different from fiber adapters.

~ F-Type Coupler
Screws on connectors 


  
